# 4.16 Quasar App Extension dotenv

[Official Ext Website](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@quasar/quasar-app-extension-dotenv)

To make the build process a bit more dynamic and to be able to store data like API keys etc I also insalled the `dotenv` app extension for `Quasar`

## 4.16.1 Install

```shell
quasar ext add @quasar/dotenv
```

Quasar CLI will retrieve it from NPM and install the extension.

## 4.16.2 Prompts

- "What is the name of your .env that you will be using for development builds?"

_The default is ".env"_

- "What name would you like to use for your Common Root Object ('none' means to not use one)?"

_The default is "none". If a value is set, this value will be appended to process.env._

> E.g. If a value is set in .env (e.g. PORT). Without a Common Root Object it will be accessible through process.env.PORT. If a Common Root Object is set (e.g. MyCompany), then it will be accessible through process.env.MyCompany.PORT.

- "Create your .env files for you?"

_The default is "true" (yes)_

> If you say "yes" to this question, then your .env files will be automatically created for you.

- "For security, would you like your .env files automatically added to .gitignore?"

_The default is "true" (yes)_

> If you say "yes" to this question, then your .env files will automatically be inserted into the .gitignore.

- For security purposes, because you may have sensitive data in your .env file, you should not keep it in a repository.

> *Note*: For security reasons, you cannot console.log(process.env). Quasar does this to enhance your own security.

> *NB*: The common root object can be updated in /quasar.extensions.json, (`common_root_object`, most extensions are under the impression you will be using the default which is `none`,this seems to be the best way to go


## 4.16.3 Tips

If you specified a common root object, say `MyData`, then the data will be placed at `process.env.MyData.`

## 4.16.4 Format

The format of a dotenv file is:

```conf
MY_DOTENV_TEST="This should work!"
PORT=4000
SHELL=${SHELL}
```

Do NOT put spaces between the equal sign.

## 4.16.5 Using Environment Variables

Environment variable are accessed like this: `$MyVar`or `${MyVar}`. If it exists, then it will be expanded.

Here is an example of something that would be used in production:

```conf
NODE_ENV=test
BASIC=basic
BASIC_EXPAND=$BASIC
MACHINE=machine_env
MACHINE_EXPAND=$MACHINE
UNDEFINED_EXPAND=$UNDEFINED_ENV_KEY
ESCAPED_EXPAND=\$ESCAPED
MONGOLAB_DATABASE=heroku_db
MONGOLAB_USER=username
MONGOLAB_PASSWORD=password
MONGOLAB_DOMAIN=abcd1234.mongolab.com
MONGOLAB_PORT=12345
MONGOLAB_URI=mongodb://${MONGOLAB_USER}:${MONGOLAB_PASSWORD}@${MONGOLAB_DOMAIN}:${MONGOLAB_PORT}/${MONGOLAB_DATABASE}

MONGOLAB_USER_RECURSIVELY=${MONGOLAB_USER}:${MONGOLAB_PASSWORD}

MONGOLAB_URI_RECURSIVELY=mongodb://${MONGOLAB_USER_RECURSIVELY}@${MONGOLAB_DOMAIN}:${MONGOLAB_PORT}/${MONGOLAB_DATABASE}

WITHOUT_CURLY_BRACES_URI=mongodb://$MONGOLAB_USER:$MONGOLAB_PASSWORD@$MONGOLAB_DOMAIN:$MONGOLAB_PORT/$MONGOLAB_DATABASE

WITHOUT_CURLY_BRACES_USER_RECURSIVELY=$MONGOLAB_USER:$MONGOLAB_PASSWORD

WITHOUT_CURLY_BRACES_URI_RECURSIVELY=mongodb://$MONGOLAB_USER_RECURSIVELY@$MONGOLAB_DOMAIN:$MONGOLAB_PORT/$MONGOLAB_DATABASE
```

## 4.16.6 Uninstall

```shell
quasar ext remove @quasar/dotenv
```