# 9.5 Destructuring assignment and rest parameters

`Destructuring assignment and rest parameters` are awesome and typical in `codebases` these days. Is it possible to strongly-type these though in `TypeScript`? Let’s find out.

## 9.5.1 TypeScript has tuples

Before we figure out how to strongly-type rest parameters, let’s understand `tuples`. A `tuple` can be thought of as an `array` with a `fixed` number of elements. They are nice for small and obvious `data structures`. For example, the `useState` `React hook` returns a `tuple`:

```ts
const [state, setState] = useState(initialState);
```

TypeScript lets us define `tuples` in a type annotation by specifying the type of each element in square brackets. For example:

```ts
const tomScore: [string, number]: ["Tom", 70];
```

## 9.5.2 Open-ended tuples

What have tuples got to do with rest parameters? Well, we’ll get there eventually.

TypeScript lets us have tuples where we can have a varying number of end elements like below:

```ts
["Tom", 70][("Jane", 70, 60)][("Fred", 70, 60, 80)];
```

We can specify the type for the above example as [string, ...number[]].

## 9.5.3 Strongly-typing rest parameters

I wonder if we can use an open-ended tuple to strongly-type a rest parameter? Let’s try to do this for the scores parameter in the function below:

```ts
function logScores(firstName, ...scores) {
  console.log(firstName, scores);
}

logScores("Ben", 50, 75, 85); // outputs Ben and [50, 75, 85]
```

Let’s try this:

```ts
function logScores(firstName: string, ...scores: [...number[]]) {
  console.log(firstName, scores);
}
```

If we think about it, `[...number[]]` is just `number[]`. So, this can be simplified to:

```ts
function logScores(firstName: string, ...scores: number[]) {
  console.log(firstName, scores);
}
```

## 9.5.6 and if we consume the function:

```ts
logScores("Ben", 50, 75, 85); // okay
logScores("Mike", 90, 65, "65"); // Argument of type '"65"' is not assignable to parameter of type 'number'
```

Great - it works!

## 9.5.4 Strongly-typing destructured assignment

Specifying the type on destructured object variables is perhaps not achieved how you might first expect. The following doesn’t specify type annotations for firstName and score:

```ts
const fred = { firstName: "Fred", score: 50 };
const { firstName: string, score: number } = fred;
```

## 9.5.7 Instead, it specifies names for the destructured variables:

```ts
console.log(firstName); // cannot find name 'firstName'
console.log(score); // cannot find name 'score'
console.log(string); // "Fred"
console.log(number); // 50
```

We specify the type annotation after the destructured object as follows:

```ts
const { firstName, score }: { firstName: string; score: number } = fred;
console.log(firstName); // "Fred"
console.log(score); // 50
```

If we are destructuring a tuple, we specify the tuple type after the destructured tuple:

```ts
const tomScore: [string, number]: ["Tom", 70];
const [firstName, score]: [string, number]  = tomScore;
console.log(firstName);   // "Tom"
console.log(score);       // 70
```

We can specify a type on an open-ended tuple as follows:

```ts
const tomScores: [string, ...number[]] = ["Tom", 70, 60, 80];
const [firstName, ...scores]: [string, ...number[]] = tomScores;
console.log(firstName); // "Tom"
console.log(scores); // [70, 60, 80]
```

It is worth noting that often TypeScript cleverly infers the types of destructured elements, but it is good to know how to specify type annotation in the edge cases where it doesn’t.

## 9.5.8 Conclusion

TypeScript tuples are a convenient way of strongly-typing small and obvious data structures. Open-ended tuples can be used to strongly-type rest parameters. TypeScript generally smartly infers the types of destructured elements for us, but when it can’t, we can simply put a type annotation after the destructured items.