# Deploy to GIT

https://www.npmjs.com/package/deploy-to-git

Every time I create build (Production build) I want that build to be sent to the project;s repo on GitHub and I want it to create release for me with all teh dependencies and I want it packaged in a Tar

## First install

```shell
npm install --save-dev deploy-to-git
```

## Configuring

Configuration for the tool needs to be placed at config.deployToGit object inside `package.json`.

- `repository` - a repository
- `branch` - a branch of the repository where you want to push the artifacts
- `folder` - a folder where artifacts are generated by the build and where the repository is cloned
- `script` - a script which runs the build
- `commit` - commit text
- `user` - commitee information for `Git -` an object with keys name and email
- `beforePushScript` (optional) - a command that should be run after a commit (e. g. add needed git tags).

`Substrings` started with `$` are replaced by corresponding environment variables.

## Getting started

Let's say you want to deploy artifacts to branch called artifacts. Let's say used build tool compiles the artifacts to build folder via NPM script called build-my-app. You'll need:

1. Create `artifacts` branch manually and remove all files from it (because you probably create the branch copying main branch contents). Push it to remote repository.
2. Add README or whatever you want to have at this branch.
3. Add build folder to .gitignore of your main branch.
4. Configure `deploy-to-git`

```json
"scripts": {
  "deploy": "deploy-to-git",
  "build-my-app": "a-build-script"
}
"config": {
  "deployToGit": {
      "repository": "git@github.com:owner/your-repo.git",
      "branch": "artifacts",
      "folder": "build",
      "script": "npm run build-my-app",
      "commit": "Automatic commit text",
      "user": {
          "email": "you@example.com",
          "name": "Your name"
      }
  }
}
```

That's it. When you run npm run deploy the tool does the following:

1. Clone the repository to build folder.
2. Run script npm run build-my-app which creates/replaces files at build folder.
3. Commit and push changes.

Tip: remove build folder before deploy-to-git run.

For more info check out `index.js`.

## Travis CI

To run it on `Travis CI` use the following format of repository field: `https://$GH_TOKEN@github.com/owner/your-repo.git`. 

You can generate `GH_TOKEN` at Github settings and add it to `Travis CI` manually. For more info just google it ("generate github token", "add environment variable to Travis") :)

It is generated automatically if you use `semantic-release-cli`.

## semantic-release

Just add deploy-to-github to `semantic-release` script.

```json
"deploy": "deploy-to-git",
"semantic-release": "semantic-release pre && npm run deploy && npm publish && semantic-release post",
```

Tip: You can use a release version in a commit message:

```
"commit": "Publising `$npm_package_version`",
```


## Travis CI

## Auto Creating a release